WHAT IS THIS?
=============

This is the FarOut Table Top Role Playing Game (TTRPG) System. If you're a new
comer to the TTRPG scene, that probably raised more questions than it answered.
So lets start with what an Role Playing Game is, then go from there.

A Role Playing Game is a game where you pretend to be something that you are not
and face tasks *as* whatever you are pretending to be. You are assuming a Role
that takes place in a Story and playing a Game while doing this. You are acting
as if you were another person, creature or some other entity and living,
thinking and acting as them.

In our modern times, you might've played a videogame where you play as a
Character with a pre-existing history, personality and look, but there actions
are directed by you through the use of some input device. Maybe without even
realizing it, you suddenly "were" that Character! They had powers, abilities and
character Traits that you didn't, but you acted as if you *were* them in order
to accomplish some tasks provided to you by the game. This was a RPG, and many
many games have at least some aspects of RPG's.

If you haven't played a videogame, then you might've shared a story with those
close to you where you imagined a Character (or several!) that had traits that
made them interesting and unique. In a weird way, you were playing a role! You
were using your imagination to empathize with a Character that doesn't exist in
order to figure out what THEY would do in a given situation given the character
traits you supplied to them and the implied history of their reality.

Even if you haven't done that, you might've found yourself in a stressful social
situation where you felt the person you were wasn't the right person for the
situation. So you imagined what a person who you perceived as more qualified
would do and say, and used that as a guide for your words and actions. You
assumed a Role, you acted as if you were a slightly different person that you
are when you're comfortable and relaxed.

RPG hook into this almost primal desire to tell stories and to pretend in order
to make a imagined world that's fun to engage with, but additionally, they
almost always try to provide enough structure in order to lend itself to a
certain type of story.

Videogames do this by only having a certain number of places to go and things to
do. You can't help but abide by the systems that make the Game playable.

Table Top RPGs don't have the luxury of being limited by how many pixels it can
project onto a screen at once -- everything takes place in the imagination of
their players. This allows a degree of freedom in play that videogames can't
match as of time of writing.

What this means is that you and your table-mates are free to craft a unique
story together. You can live multiple lives without leaving your living room.
You can face bitter defeats, hard-won victories, toxic betrayals, and
tear-eyed elation in the span of hours.

Doing this is harder if you're *just* playing make-believe like young children
do on the playground. That's why many TTRPG authors seek to give you structure;
it's more likely that you'll craft a cohesive story if you're given some
direction and have some or even most of the blanks filled in for you.

This structure almost always takes the form of a rulebook that describe the
What, How and Why of components of the Story. Many times, these rules are tide
to some task that you have to complete in the physical world in order to
determine success. It'd be less fun if your Character was able to do anything
whenever it wanted! 

You've probably heard of games like Dungeons and Dragons that was so lovingly
crafted by Wizards of the Coast if you've found FarOut. Dungeons and Dragons is
what is says on the tin, it's a TTRPG that gives you all the bells and dragon
scales you need to play as Character in a rule defined by medieval fantasy.

FarOut is a TTRPG *System*. While it *does* provide a setting and a lore that
helps carve out an engaging tale, you can just as easily use it in a Swords and
Sorcery story as you could in one about Jets and Jaberwoks if you use a little
bit of imagination and careful rule-bending.
