GETTING STARTED
---------------

Far Out operate with the use of a standard 54 deck of cards. These are available
at most general stores like grocery stores, gas stations, and convenience
stores. Some restaurants even sell there own branded ones for tourists.

In any event, you need at minimum two of these decks (one for the players and
one for the GM), but things work best when each person present at the table has
their own deck. 

The GM's deck is called Misery, and the Player's Deck(s) is/are called Fate.

These decks are comprised of 54 Cards, with 4 Suits, and 13 cards per Suit, plus
2 Suit-less Jokers.

The 4 Suits are Clubs, Spades, Diamonds, and Hearts. Most decks mark the Suits
with the following symbols:

    ♠	Spade	
    ♥	Heart	
    ♣	Club	
    ♦   Diamond

Usually, the Suit of the card won't matter, but certain mechanics call for
the drawing of a card and reading its suit instead of its number. You'll usually
do this when determining what kind of injuries you sustain from attacks, but for
now, don't worry about that too much.

The Suits contain 9 Numbered Cards, 3 Face Cards and 1 Ace each. The 9 Numbered
Cards are 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. This document refers to Numbered Cards
simply as Numbers. The Face Cards refer to the Jack, Queen, and King cards of
each Suit. The Ace is usually marked with the letter A.

For our purposes, each card is assigned a values or two paired values that
resolve to one or the other given by mechanics explained below. The values
associated with each card in a suit are as follows:

    2       :: 2
    3       :: 3
    4       :: 4
    5       :: 5
    6       :: 6
    7       :: 7
    8       :: 8
    9       :: 9
    10      :: 10
    Jack    :: 11
    Queen   :: 12
    King    :: 13
    Ace     :: 14 || 1
    Joker   :: 15 || 0

As above, Numbers are worth the value printed on the Card. The Face Cards are
worth between 11 and 13 Fortune, with the Jack being worth 11, and the King
being worth 13.

Aces are a card with two different values. When drawn, you may decide if it is
worth a 1 or a 14. Drawing a high valued card is not always desireable because
of a mechanic in Far Out called Doubling Down and Tripling Down. These mechanics
are explained deeper in this section under "Taking Risks and Raising Stakes".

Jokers are the other card in the decks worth two different values. When Drawn,
your GM draws 1 card from Misery and the player that played to Joker draws 1
Card from their Fate. If the player's card has a higher value than the GM's,
then the Joker resolves to being worth 15, otherwise it resoles to being worth
0.

If the two cards drawn the same in value, the GM and player draws 1 more card
each uses these two new cards to determine the value of the Joker. They will
repeat this until they have a winner.

TRYING REALLY HARD
------------------

Whenever you try to do something, you say your going to Try whatever it is
you've decided you want your Avatar to do. When you Try something, you draw a
Card from Fate, parse/choose its value depending on the card, then add the
appropriate bonuses/penalties.

The value supplied by Fate is refered to as Fortune and the value supplied by
your stats/circumstance is called Skill. The sum of your Fortune and your Skill
give you your Try.

Your Try is compared to the Challenge, which a number the GM assigns to
determine how difficult a task is for your Avatar. This number is entirely up to
the GM usually, but some things have a built in methodology to determine their
exact Challenge.

When the GM assigns a Challenge, they're weighing how difficult something is
*relative* to your Character and their situation. Don't forget, most civilized
Creatures in the Silk have had their genome altered to make optimum body
performance a given, not something that only the dedicated and talented can
acheive. That said, the following scale should guide their decisions.

1 -> 5   - Easy - These are actions that humans do as a matter of routine at
time of writing. People can and do fail these actions quite frequently,
especially when distracted or stressed. Avatars *can* fail these actions, but
its very rare unless they're stressed out, or have a weak or Broken Core.

    Brawn   :: Carry a week's worth of groceries up a flight of stairs.

    Speed   :: Climb a tree with lots of branches. 

    Brain   :: Drive to work.

    Heart   :: Give a good first impression to a new coworker.

6 -> 10  - Average - These are actions that humans can do reliably do if they're
properly motivated, talented, or prepared and are able-bodied, but are still
prone to failure, even if the actor is focussed.

    Brawn   :: Break down a heavy, wooden door.

    Speed   :: Jump, then kick-off a wall to grab the ledge of a second-story
               balcony.

    Brain   :: Pass a college mid-term for a class you haven't been going to.

    Heart   :: Not scream out in pain when you get badly burned.

11 -> 15 - Hard - These are actions that humans CAN do at time of writing, but
are by no means assured. Even focussed, skilled individuals might have to try a
few times, or practice diligantly in order perform Hard tasks.

    Brawn   :: Forcibly open a reinforced steel door.

    Speed   :: Juggle three revving chainsaws while walking on a tightrope.

    Brain   :: Successfully complete a PhD.

    Heart   :: Continue giving an important, intricate presentation at work
               after getting a text that your parents just died in a car
               accident.

16 -> 20 - Heroic - These are actions that humans aren't capable of at time of
writing. These types of actions aren't misplaced in a summer blockbuster or a
medical drama, but they're still only slightly beyond what peak human
performance is capable of.

    Brawn   :: Lift a car over your head.

    Speed   :: Richochet-jump between two walls to reach the 5th floor of a
               building.

    Brain   :: Create a military-grade weapon out of consumer-grade materials.

    Heart   :: Convince a band of mauraders to not pillage your village when
               they know they outnumber you 5 to 1.


21 -> 25 - Super Heroic - These types of actions start to scrape against
physical/mental limitations. At time of writing, these actions can only be done
by humans that are assisted by sophisticated tools, or otherwise are straight
out of a late night cartoon or a comic. You still aren't running across water
like its solid ground, or chucking cars like they're baseballs, but you're
definitely beyond what the human body is capable of.


    Brawn   :: Flip parked car, shoving it out by 20ft in the process.

    Speed   :: Slice the bullet whizzing towards your friend's head in half.

    Brain   :: Become fluent in a language after reading a translation of a
               single, five-minute conversation between two friends that're 
               out for coffee.

    Heart   :: Convince a grizzled detective that you really DO have no idea how
               the dead body and drugs got into the back-seat of your car, and the still
               wet blood on your clothes is actually tomato sauce.

As you can see, there's a rough scale of what Avatars are capable of, with
mundane stuff being almost gauranteed tasks that you don't have to worry about,
with low-grade superhaminty at the high end.

TAKING RISKS AND RAISING STAKES
-------------------------------

There will be times where you just can't afford to fail a particular Challenge,
but the card you draw is not the one you think you need. In an instance like this, you can
do one of two things:

    1. Pray that the GM will take mercy on you.

    2. Double Down

When you enter a High Stress Scenario, you draw 3 Cards from Fate. These 3 Cards
are your Options. You may not have more than 3 Cards in your Options at a time,
but you may replace spent cards with Swagger.

Before you draw a Card from Fate, you may take one or several cards from Options
and designate it as Risk. Risk is added to your Fortune and Skill in order to
determine the Try, but the sum of Risk and Fortune can't be higher than 15,
otherwise you Flop.

When you Flop, you are treated as if you generated Fortune equal to the lowest
card played. That is, if you drew a 3 from Fate, and put down a 1 and a 6, you
are treated as if you only played the 1. Your Skill is added to this number as
normal. In addition to this, you Bust, and must discard 1 card from Options, or
otherwise won't draw a new Option at the beginning of the next Round.

The value of a Joker is determined after you 'Lock In' your Try, meaning
that if it resolves to being 15 when you added any Risk to it at all, you
automatically Flop.

BANGING AND GETTING BUSTED
--------------------------

There will be many times during your adventures that you will find yourself in
either advantageous or disadvantageous positions. Instances like these
grant/curse your character things that are called Bangs and Busts. 

When your Avatar has an advantageous position for whatever it is you decided to
Try you are considered to be Banging. 

When you're Banging, immediately draw a new Card from Fate and add it to
Options. If you already have 3 Cards in Options, you may choose which card to
put at the bottom of your Fate, and this Card may be the Card that you just drew
as the result of the Bang.

When your Avatar has an disadvantage for anything they're Trying, they're
considered Busted. If you are Busted, your GM calls out a Card in your Options
for you discard, and you must place this Card at the bottom of your Fate.
Otherwise, if your Out of Options, you simply track how many Cards you 'owe'
Fate and refrain from drawing a new Option at the beginning of the next round,
or at the next expenditure of Swagger.

Source of Bang and Busts reapply at the beginning of every round.

Your GM is the only person at the table that can hand Bangs and Busts out, but
there are some mechanics within the game that explicitly cause Bangs and Busts.

You are able to Bang or Bust multiple times per round, sometimes within the same
Moment. Bangs that occur more or less simultaneously require you to swap cards
out from Options in sequence in order to perserve the 3 Card maximum.

