MOVEMENT AND PATHS
------------------

Your Character can only move a certain amount of distance in 3 Seconds (the
length of a Round in a High Stress Scenario). The amount of distance they can
cover reliably is set by their Hustle.

Otherwise, when moving any amount of Distance greater than their Hustle,
Characters may make a Move Action in order to generate a Path. A Path is at most
3 Straight lines connected to each-other, with each length being an arbitrary
natural-numbered distance.

The Path generated by a Move Action is the route your Character takes between
their current location and their destination. The amount of distance generated
by the Move Action's Attempt is dictated by a Creature's Stride.

Stride is a ratio determined by your Character's physiology. It is a ratio
between Effort to Movement. For most Creatures, their Stride is 1::2. This means
that for every point of a Try generated by a Move Action, they may move 2ft.  

Creatures can have multiple Strides if they have Special Movement available to
them. For example, winged or be-jetpacked players would have a seperate Stride for their
flight-based movement and their natural, land-based movement.

As with all Actions, you may Double or Triple Down on a single Move Action, but
doing so comes with the danger of Tripping if you end up Flopping or draw a
Joker.

If you Trip, your Character stops moving, and falls Prone. While Prone,
Creatures that attack you from 15ft or closer do so with a Bang, but Bust if
they are further away than 15ft. To stand up from being Prone, a Creature must
expend 1 Grit, 1 Swagger, or expend an Action.

OBSTACLES
---------

A Path may be drawn between any two points in the Game World, and will
frequently intersect with Obstacles. Obstacles are any facet of the Game World
that slows or stops a Creature's normal movement.

When a Creature intersects with an Obstacle when following a Path, they must use
an Action in order to Challenge the Obstacle. Obstacles are almost always
Speed-based, but can Challenge any of the Creature's Cores.

If you fail the Challenge supplied by an Obstacle, what happens is ultimately up
to the GM, but usually, it simply cuts the Path short, and prevents the Creature
from moving the full intended distance.

FANCY MOVES
-----------

You won't always be running across a flat surface. There are certain types of
movement that have slightly different Strides and Challenge different Cores.
They are listed below

Climbing (3::2) - If your Character isn't climbing something that was purposely
designed to be climbed (like a ladder), you use your Brawn to complete to Move
Action as opposed to using your Speed.

Swimming (5::2) - If the fluid your Character is swimming in is calm, your
complete Movement with your Speed as normal, but use a Stride of 5::2. If the
fluid is turbulent you use your Brawn Core instead.

Driving/Piloting (?) - All movement that utilizes a vehicle of
some sort uses your Brain Core in order to generate the Path. Different vehicles
have different Stride, and the scales vary massively.

Special Strides (?) - Either you invested in the ability to fly, or even dig
through soft earth, but the Stride associated with these special types of
movement is determined by how many Splice Points you invested, or otherwise the
one mentioned in the item's descriptions.

MOVING STUFF & FALLING
----------------------

Stride has a ratio defined by Effort::Results, and Displacement is no different.
Displacement is a special type of Action that uses both the Momentum of an
Object and its Encumberance in order to determine how quickly you move
something.

Momentum is a measure of mass and a distribution of that mass. The GM decides
how much Momentum something has, similarly to how they decern the Difficulty of
Taps and Checks. 

Unlike Difficulty, Momentum has a more concrete scale of each point of Momentum
being worth 100lb's of downward force (M). The GM isn't expected to know exactly how
much mass & weight something has, but has this rough scale to guide their
decisions.

If something has less than 1 Momentum (i.e. less than 100lb's of downward
force), your Character can Palm it, meaning they can move it about freely
without having to Try. For every point of Brawn below 0 you have, your Palm can
hold 1/10 less Momentum, whereas every point of Brawn above 0 you have, your
Palm can hold 1 extra Momentum worth of stuff. 

If you Try to move some things



Moveability ::

            Meant To Be Thrown :: 25ft - Javelins, footballs, throwing knives ~~
            "I'm meant to throw this."

            Throwable :: 20ft - Beer bottles, fist-sized rocks, swords ~~ 
            "I can totally throw that."

            Luggable :: 15ft - 
            "Can't believe I have to carry this around all day."

            Cumbersome :: 10ft - A couch, an oil drum, an angry dog
            "Man do I really have to push this up those stairs?"

            Meant To Stay Put :: 5ft
            "... Maybe with a running start."

            Meant To Move Other Things :: 1ft
            "... Maybe with a running start ... if I was an elephant."

            



BEING SCARY IN SPACE AND TAKING NAMES 
-------------------------------------

Space refers to any discernible, unoccupied area within the Game World. Due to
the nature of the game, the exact square-footage of a certain Space is best left
to approximation and mental heuristics. At the same time, certain abilities,
items, and narrative components have explicitly sized products or forms. When
given exact dimensions, they are meant to be adhered to closely and should act
as landmarks when describing the shape, size and position of less explicitly
defined features. 

You'll find yourself using phrases like:
    ~~~
    "I run right up to the wall on the far side of the room, that's only 20ft right?"
    
    "I stand 10ft to the right of Jack."
    
    "I run to 2ft to the left edge of the bone-wall, then run 3ft to the other side
    of it, then run 15ft down the length of it."
    
    "I walk up to the glowing orb, but stay 3ft away from it."
    
    "The room is 20ft by 20ft and 10ft tall? Well I Hustle to the exact centre of it
    and use my Mutation to coat it in neurotoxin, top to bottom."
    ~~~

Your Character is considered to Threaten a certain amount of Space within a
Scenario. To Threaten something means that should a creature, object, or item
take an take a Move Action, you can make a Quick Attack against them.

Creatures Threaten everything that is closer to them than their Threat. Most
Creatures have about 5ft of Threat, but some have more and some have less. 

Threat is not the same thing as Range. Range means you *can* Threaten something,
whereas Threat implies you *are* Threatening something. Your Threat describes a
radial distance around your Character where you Threaten anything within it.
Range, on the other hand, describes how far away a singular target can be and
that you can still try to attack it.

If you have the ability to make a Ranged Attack, you may as part of an Action or
Reaction, designate a single Creature to Track. To Track a Creature means that
you are considered as if were Threatening them. For each point of Speed your
Character has, you can Track one additional Creature at once, but all Creatures
you are Tracking must be within 15ft a singular point. If the Creature you're
Tracking is aware of you and your position, it knows when you are Tracking it.

If two or more Creatures are Threatening another Creature, their Quick Attacks
resolve in the order of highest Speed Core to the lowest.

TAKING COVER, APPLYING PRESSURE AND FLANKING
----------------------------------------------

