MOVEMENT AND PATHS
------------------

Your Character can only move a certain amount of distance in 3 Seconds (the
length of a Round in a High Stress Scenario). The amount of distance they can
cover reliably is set by their Dash.

Otherwise, when moving any amount of Distance greater than their Dash,
Characters may make a Move Action in order to generate a Path. A Path is at most
3 Straight lines connected to each-other, with each length being an arbitrary
natural-numbered distance.

The Path generated by a Move Action is the route your Character takes between
their current location and their destination. The amount of distance generated
by the Move Action's Attempt is dictated by a Creature's Stride.

Stride is a ratio determined by your Character's physiology. For most Creatures,
their Stride is 1::2. This means that for every point of Attempt generated by a
Move Action, they may move 2ft.  

Creatures can have multiple Strides if they have Special Movement available to
them. For example, winged or be-jetpacked players would have a seperate Stride for their
flight-based movement and their

As with all Actions, you may Double or Triple Down on a single Move Action, but
doing so comes with the danger of Tripping if you end up Flopping or draw a
Joker.

If you Trip, your Character stops moving, and falls Prone. While Prone,
Creatures that attack you from 15ft or closer do so with a Bang, but Bust if
they are further away than 15ft. To stand up from being Prone, a Creature must
expend 1 Stamina, or discard an Action.

OBSTACLES
---------

A Path may be drawn between any two points in the Game World, and will
frequently intersect with Obstacles. Obstacles are any facet of the Game World
that slows or stops a Creature's normal movement.

When a Creature intersects with an Obstacle when following a Path, they must use
an Action in order to Challenge the Obstacle. Obstacles are almost always
Speed-based, but can Challenge any of the Creature's Cores.

If you fail the Challenge supplied by an Obstacle, what happens is ultimately up
to the GM, but usually, it simply cuts the Path short, and prevents the Creature
from moving the full intended distance.

FANCY MOVES
-----------

You won't always be running across a flat surface. There are certain types of
movement that have slightly different Strides and Challenge different Cores.
They are listed below

Climbing (3::2) - If your Character isn't climbing something that was purposely
designed to be climbed (like a ladder), you use your Brawn to complete to Move
Action as opposed to using your Speed.

Swimming (5::2) - If the fluid your Character is swimming in is calm, your
complete Movement with your Speed as normal, but use a Stride of 5::2. If the
fluid is turbulent you use your Brawn Core instead.

Driving/Piloting (?) - All movement that utilizes a vehicle of
some sort uses your Brain Core in order to generate the Path. Different vehicles
have different Stride, and the scales vary massively.

BEING SCARY IN SPACE AND TAKING NAMES 
-------------------------------------

Space refers to any discernible, unoccupied area within the Game World. Due to
the nature of the game, the exact square-footage of a certain Space is best left
to approximation and mental heuristics. At the same time, certain abilities,
items, and narrative components have explicitly sized products or forms. When
given exact dimensions, they are meant to be adhered to closely and should act
as landmarks when describing the shape, size and position of less explicitly
defined features. 

You'll find yourself using phrases like:
    ~~~
    "I run right up to the wall on the far side of the room, that's only 20ft right?"
    
    "I stand 10ft to the right of Jack."
    
    "I run to 2ft to the left edge of the bone-wall, then run 3ft to the other side
    of it, then run 15ft down the length of it."
    
    "I walk up to the glowing orb, but stay 3ft away from it."
    
    "The room is 20ft by 20ft and 10ft tall? Well I Dash to the exact centre of it
    and use my Trait to coat it in neurotoxin, top to bottom."
    ~~~

Your Character is considered to Threaten a certain amount of Space within a
Scenario. To Threaten something means that should a creature, object, or item
take an Action/Reaction, your Character is able to invoke a Reaction of your own
assuming you haven't used up all your Actions for a Round. 

Creatures Threaten everything that occupies the same Zone as them, but can
potentially Threaten Creatures that are multiple Zones away if they have some
item or ability that supplies Threat. While in Superposition between Zones, you
do not Threaten anything until you make a decision on which Zone you are in. 

Threat is not the same thing as Range. Range means you *can* Threaten something,
whereas Threat implies you *are* Threatening something. Your Threat describes a
radial distance around your Character where you Threaten anything within it.
Range, on the other hand, describes how far away a singular target can be and
that you can still try to attack it.

If you have the ability to make a Ranged Attack, you may as part of an Action or
Reaction, designate a single Creature to Track. To Track a Creature means that
you can immediately React to any Action/Reaction that Creature takes, as if you
were Threatening them. For each point of Speed your Character has, you can Track
one additional Creature at once, but all Creatures you are Tracking must be in
the same Zone. If the Creature you're Tracking is aware of you and your
position, it knows when you are Tracking it.

If two or more Creatures are Threatening another Creature, their Reactions
resolve in the order of highest Speed Core to the lowest. You may
expend a point of Stamina to Cut, pushing your Action to the front of the
queue, meaning it will resolve before the Creature who would normally go first 

SHAKING THINGS UP
-----------------

Actions have consequences on the Game World. Sometimes these consequences
cascade and end up altering the Scenario significantly. When this happens the GM
will have to re-describe the Scenario and reform the Zones.

There are many reasons why a Zone would change its shape/size. Maybe a Thrasher
just fired a ray from their Cryo-Cannon, causing a 15ft tall wall of ice to
sprout from ground, cleaving the lobby of the bank in half. Maybe you're in a
burning building with thick black smoke obfuscating your vision and tendrils of
fire snaking all around you, causing the Zones to shrink and shift between every
Round.

Every time a Zone you're in changes shape, you must shuffle your deck, but you
cannot be forced to shuffle your deck more than 3 times per round.

In any event, the placement of Borders and Paths are more important in
deciding how to traverse a Scenario than the size of the Zones themselves

TAKING COVER, APPLYING PRESSURE AND FLANKING
----------------------------------------------

You won't survive long if you stand out in the open. Taking Cover is vital in
order to minimize the amount of Attacks you have to contend with each round. 

Taking Cover is different to just being behind a wall that's larger that your
Character, or being around the corner from the enemy, this is referred to as
being Out of Sight, meaning that your Character can't be targeted directly.
Taking Cover implies that you Character has to stoop, bend, or even go prone in
order to take advantage of the environment in order to make themselves a harder
target.

Whatever you are Taking Cover behind must be at least half the size of your
Character, and must be opaque. There are 3 different ways to Take Cover. 

Hover - 

    Hovering implies that you are standing near the cover and are ready
    to duck behind it at any moment and are able to peak out of it in order to
    make quick attacks. Any Attacks made against you while Hovering
    are made with a Bust as long as the cover is at least partially between your
    Character and the assailant.

    Hovering is not an Action that your Character takes, but a status that your
    Creature gains while they are near appropriate cover.

    If you attempt and succeed at an Active Dodge while you are Hovering, you
    may immediately Squeeze into cover as part of the Action used to complete
    the Active Dodge.

Squeeze - 

    This implies that your Character had to go into an awkward position or
    otherwise crouch, bend, or contort in order to utilize the cover. Whenever
    you Squeeze into Cover, Attacks made against you are made with a Bust as
    long as the cover is at least partially between your Character and the
    assailant. You also get Bang I on any Focussed Dodges you take against Attacks
    made by assailants as long as the cover is between you and them. 

    You may make Attacks while Squeezing, but you will have Unsqueezed to do so
    as part of the Attack, meaning that if you want to get back into cover you
    will have to use another Action to Squeeze again. Unsqueezing during a Round
    does not restore the dropped Action for that Round.

    When Squeezing, your Character can be considered to have reduced their size
    by up to half. This may enable to Creature to go Out of Sight.

    Squeezing must be done as an Action, but it still leaves you with 1 Action
    to use for that Round if you Squeezed with your first Action for that Round.

Pray - 

    This implies that your Character is using something that is charitably
    called "non-convential cover". Praying under Cover is darting behind a thin
    lamp post and having it miraculously block the bullet, or having an elevator
    door close just in time to catch the angry end of a spear or pulling your
    hand up out of reflex and having the knife bite into your wrist-watch
    instead of your face.

    You Pray by sacrificing 2 Actions, 2 Stamina, 1 Action and 1 Stamina or 1
    Strike in lieu of Actions or Stamina. You can Pray even if you exhausted all
    your Actions for a Round if you decide to expend a Strike.
    
    You and your assailant then draw 2 Cards each and total their value. If the
    Praying Creature has the higher total, the Prayer is answered and the attack
    misses.

    You must be aware of the attack that's coming in order to Pray. Your GM must
    also believe you have SOMETHING available to you that would feasibly block
    the attack you're Praying against. Unless your buck naked, you PROBABLY do
    have something that could at least slow a bullet down. You're able to ask if
    you can Pray and your GM is obliged to answer you, though they do have the
    final say on the matter.

Cover is considered to be between the Attacker and the Target if the GM can draw
a straight line between the Attacker and the Target and the line intersect some
part of the Cover.

Flanking is a way to flip the tables on your entrenched opponent and turn the
blessing of cover into a curse. A flank happens when the GM draw a straight line
through the Attacker, the Target and the cover that the Creature is Hovering or
Squeezing behind and the Target is between the Attacker and the Cover.

If the Target was Hovering, the Flanking Creature gets Bang I, and if the Target is Squeezing,
the Attacker gets Bang II.

Attacking Creatures that are unaware of you gives you a Bang III.

MOMENTUM & BURDEN
=================

    Carry 

    Lug

    Bruteforce (2 * Momentum) + (2 * Brawn)
