MUTATIONS 
=========

At Birth you may optionally exchange 1 Slant in order to gain 3 Splice Points.
After this, you must have the appropriate amount of Prestige and Wealth in order
to gain additional Splice Points points in the form of Items, Equipment and
Mutations.

Splice Points may be exchanged for anything from to fangs, to AI-designed
martial arts, to acid breath, to wrist mounted laser cannons.

Whatever your Mutation is, it represents a change to your character's appearance
that is either mechanical, technological or biological that warrants the effect
it grants you.

If your character able to reach out and touch someone 30ft away, for example, it
means something along the lines of your character is able to shoot web, it has a
tentacle arm, or it has a shoulder mounted harpoon launcher. The exact
description of a Mutation depends on the Character's back-story, the function of
the Mutation and the narrative context of the game you are playing.

Your Mutation is bound by its Properties and Aesthetics. The Properties inform
the Aesthetics which inform the Narrative. In other words, Mutations won't be
able to influence creature statistics like Strikes, Grit, and Stress more than
is defined by their Properties, but the resulting Aesthetics may allow for
creative applications or unforeseen consequences within the Narrative. 

For example, having fangs would make intimidating people slightly easier (and
thus grant a Bang), but would make comforting a distressed child harder.  Oozing
acid would be a great way to make people respect your personal space, but makes
finding a restaurant that's willing to seat you almost impossible.

Whatever your Mutation ends up being you must decide on the following three
details:

        1. The location of the Mutation. You may designate the Mutation as
           being anchored to, being projected from or embedded in either your
           Torso, Head, or one of your Limbs. 

           Multiple Mutations may be anchored to/embedded in the same
           portion of your body. Mutations may become less effective or even
           unuseable if the body part the Mutation is associated with
           becomes Injured or Disabled. 

           Mutations are always assumed to perserve the original function of the
           limb, but any additional function (i.e. flinging a laser-sword out
           30ft) needs to be purchased as normal.

           You may optionally designate the Mutation as a Crux, giving you 3
           additional Splice Points points to use on the Mutation designated
           as a Crux, but if the Crux is damaged, it could Fail
           Catastrophically. The more potent the Crux, the more dangerous it
           becomes for its user.

        2. The material the Mutation is made of. A Mutation may be comprised
           of either Metal, Biomass or Energy or some combination thereof.
           It will influence to what degree certain hazards will effect your
           Character. Each category of material will also incur one of the
           following bonuses based on which material the Mutation is
           *mostly* comprised of:
                
                    Metal - You gain +2 Swagger and the limb automatically
                    qualifies as a Crude Weapon with a Damage of 2 and a Range
                    of 0. You may expand upon this Damage if you make the
                    Mutation Crude as well, but you may also create a Technical
                    Mutation and have it double as a improvised Crude Weapon. 

                    Biomass - As long as the Mutation is not a Crux, the
                    Player may choose to have the Mutation Concealed with no
                    additional Splice Point Cost. Damaged Mutations may be
                    forced to work as normal by expending 1 Grit for a
                    single use. You may also expend 2 Grit in order to
                    force a Disabled Biomass Mutation to work for a single
                    use as if it were merely Malfunctioning.

                    Energy - The Mutation gains a Range of 20ft, 1 Point of
                    Damage and 5ft of Area for no additional cost. 

        3. The general dimensions of the Mutation. You don't need to have
           the measurements down to the inch, but you need a solid concept
           of whether the shoulder mounted flamethrower means you're adding
           3 seperate wine-bottle sized cynlinders onto your upper arm, or
           if you're carrying what amounts to a back-pack filled with jet
           fuel on your back. 

           This mass isn't anymore vulnerable than any other part of the
           body unless the Mutation is also a Crux, in which case you need
           to carefully considered how to distribute the mass of your
           Mutation. While not meant to be exact, the general guideline for
           a Splice Points to Volume relationship is 1 litre of distilled
           water to 1 Splice Point spent. 


STEP 1) HOW MANY MUTATIONS? 
========================

    Whether or not you take a Mutation at all should be carefully considered.
    While they are undoubtedly useful, Mutations incur a financial and practical
    consideration for you Character. 
    
    The bodies of Creatures can only handle so much Mutation before it starts to
    stress existing body systems. At level 1, for every 5 Splice Points used,
    their Character accumulates +1 Turpor and +1 Weakness.

    As a default, you are able to gather and utilize as much as 24 Splice
    Points, but your GM may lower or raise this number depending on what type of
    game they are running.
    
    You may have more than one Mutation at once.

STEP 2) WHAT PROPERTIES WILL THE MUTATION(S) HAVE?
==================================================

There are two types of Mutations, Natural Weapons and Anatomy Mutations.

NATURAL WEAPONS
---------------


### RANGE (R)
#### COST: 1 Splice Points per 20ft

    A Mutation with Range is able to apply its other effects to a single
    Creature or point within the Game World up to its Range. 

    This means that you may apply the effects to a single designated Target
    Creature/Object. If the Object is a Creature or otherwise is cabable of
    reacting to things, they will be given the opportunity to avoid/resist the
    effects of the Mutation.

    Projectiles always travel in straight lines, and require Line of Sight in
    order to target a point in the Game World. 

    After you have purchased the Range of a Mutation, you may decide to
    designate the Range as Artillary Range. This quarters the total Range of a
    Projectile, but allows you to target points in the Game World that you do
    not have Line of Sight for.


### AREA (A)
#### COST: 1 Splice Points per 12ft of Area.

    A Mutation with Area is able to apply their effects over a large amount of
    space. 

    A Mutation with Area must have a Point of Origin, which may be placed on any
    point of your Avatar's body. A Trait's products propagate from this place of
    Origin, but a Point of Origin does not necessarily have to be in the centre
    of an object.

    When a Mutation is activated, its Area propagates from its Point of Origin
    instanteously at either the moment of actication, or when the Point of
    Origin contacts something in the Game World.

    When a Mutation has Area and Range, the Point of Origin may be projected
    away from the Avatar up to the Range. You may decide to project the Point of
    Origin up to a portion of the range, then project the generated material
    away from the Point of Contact up to half the remaining range. 

    You may also divide the Area of the Mutation up into seperate portions, such
    that when 1 portion of the Area contacts something in the Game World, the
    remaining Area begins to propagate from the Point of Contact. Each stage of
    Area may impart/utilize different portions of the Mutations other effects.
    If desired, you may designate Activation Points along the trajectory of the
    Point of Origin where portions of the Area are generated.

    When given Area, an object must have at least 1ft of Height, Width and
    Length. The Area of a Mutation can only impart its effects on a
    Creature/Point of Contact once per round.

### INTEGRITY
#### COST: 1 Splice Points per 3 Integrity
    
    A Mutation with Integrity implicitely creates tangible material that
    persists until destroyed. A Mutation with Integrity must have Area as well.
    The products of a Mutation do not necessarily have to fill the Area
    completely, but must touch each boundary of the Area at least once.
         
    Products with Integrity can be gas, liquid or solid. 
            
    #####Gas
    
        Gas fills any container it is placed in, spreading outward from Point of
        Origin and moving in the same direction as the strongest
        non-gravitational force acting on it each Moment. 

        If able, gasses will exchange 1 Integrity for 3ft of Area each Moment in
        order to fill the container, and prefer to distribute the Area between
        Length, Width and Height equally. 

        In addition to the Integrity exchanged for Area, gasses loses an
        additional point of Integrity per round. Gasses can't be Challenged by
        Actions that normally wouldn't be able to dispel clouds of gas.

        Any force that would feasibly push the entirity of the gas will use its
        Challenge to generate a Stride for the cloud of Gas. This is done at the
        GM's discretion

        Gasses may be placed into containers, pumped into/out of containers 

    #####Liquid

        Liquid fills any container it is placed in, spreading outward from Point
        of Origin and moving in the same direction as the strongest force acting
        on it each Moment. 

        Once formed, Liquids will seek to exchange all its Height for Length and
        Width where possible, and does so the Moment after they were created.
        Liquids lose 1 Integrity per round. 

        Liquids can't be Challenged by Actions that normally wouldn't be able to
        displace or evaporate liquids.

        Liquids may be placed into containers, suspended in other fluids and
        coated over solids in order to impart their effects through creative
        means.

    #####Solid

        Solids fill the shape designated by the Area, not changing shape, but
        still traveling in the same direction as the strongest force acting on
        it each Moment assuming the force is strong enough to overcome the
        product's Momentum. Solids do not lose Integrity every round, and remain
        permanently affixed in the Game World until they are destroyed by
        opposing forces, but may be Challenged by any Actions that would
        normally be able to damage solid materials. Solids have a Momentum
        equivalent to their Integrity when first formed, but when Damaged have a
        Momentum determined by the GM. 

    When a product or a portion of it has its Integrity reduced to 0, it is
    destroyed and becomes useless. With large products that can reasonably be
    broken multiple times, the GM determines how it breaks, but no less than a
    5ft x 5ft x 5ft cube of material is destroyed when a portion of a product
    has its Integrity reduced to 0.

    Products of Mutations are always a 'generic' material that has no special
    properties and is chemically stable. This means you cannot suffocate
    Creatures by flooding a room with gas, nor can you snuff out a flame by
    pouring liquid products over it, unless you give the product such Effects.

    Area doubles as a sort of ammo-counter for your Mutations. Avatars can only
    produce an amount of material equal to the Mutation's Area. You can
    distribute Area between Mutation activations, but as mentioned, every
    product with Area must have 1ft of Height, Length and Width, meaning that
    every 12ft of Area bought allows for the production of 4 seperate missiles
    at once. 

### STRESS
#### COST: 3 Splice Points per 1 point of Stress

    Stress directly harms the Cores of Creatures that contact a Mutation's Area
    of Effect, or are otherwise designated at the Target of a Trait that only
    has Range.

    You must designate Stress as either Slowness, Weakness, Distraction, or
    Erosion when you buy it. A single Mutation may output all 4 types of Stress
    as once. For every 5 points of Stress bought, you may convert it into
    Mutilation.


### POWER
#### COST: 2 Splice Points per 1 Power
        
    Power can be imbued into Creatures in order to boost a Core, or it can be
    imbued into the Mutation's products in order to give those products an
    Effect.

    As normal, a Creature's Core can't be set to a value higher than +5, but
    they may Super Charged with the use of Power. If a Core is boosted, after it
    stops benefiting from boost it incurs 1 point of Stress, and if it was Super
    Charged, it incurs 3 points of Stress.

    Effects can be anything an Avatar could do bare-handed or with an
    appropriate tool, assuming your Mutations qualifies as an appropriate tool
    for the intended effect. They are very similar to typical Actions, except
    they use their Power in place of a Core when it is used to Try something.

    You may give your Effects activation conditions or give it an activation
    time.

    As always, a Mutation cannot cause more Stress to a Creature than what is
    purchased for it or by utilizing other game mechanics that cause Stress
    (such as causing the Creature to Fall, Trip or suffocating it). This means
    that even if your Mutation generates tiny black-holes to fling objects, the
    black-holes themselves are not able to cause any Stress unless they were
    given the applicable properties by purchasing those properties with Splice
    Points.

    You may also designate Power as Healing Power, which may doled out to
    cleanse away Stress or Mutilation. Healing Power is a limited resource
    similar to Swagger and Grit, and if a Mutation could feasibly impart Healing
    Power on multiple creatures, it must be distributed evenly amongst all of
    them, but with the Creature closest to the Point of Origin receiving any
    remainder.

    If you grant an object Power such that it can utilize all of the available
    Cores (Brawn, Speed, Brain, Heart), you can expend an additional 2 Splice
    Points to turn it into a Construct. Constructs are discussed in detail
    deeper into this section.


ANATOMY MUTATIONS
-----------------

### BONUS SWAGGER
#### COST: 2 Splice Points per 1 Bonus Swagger 

    Your Creature's Swagger is increased by 1 per point of Bonus Swagger
    purchased. You aren't able to accumulate more than 15 Swagger as normal.

### BONUS GRIT
#### COST: 2 Splice Points per 1 Bonus Grit.

    Your Creature's Grit is increased by 1 per point of Bonus Grit
    purchased.

### BONUS HAUL
#### COST: 3 Splice Points per Bonus Haul Slot. 

    The Size of a Creature's Haul is increased by 1 per Bonus Haul Slot
    purchased. The rules for Wielding things in your Haul are used as normal.


### SENSE ENHANCEMENT
#### COST: 2 Splice Points per 3 Sense Points

    You are able to enhance your Senses with either direct Try Bonuses, or
    unique sight enhancments that broaden the spectrum of how your Character can
    perceive the Game World.

    This system is described within the Physiology section of this book. Amongst
    other things, you can gain the ability to see in the dark, or sense the
    heart beats of other Creatures.

### RESIZE
#### COST: 3 Splice Points per Size Category  
    
    There are 3 Size Categories that Player Characters can be created under.
    From smallest to largest they are:

         Small 
         Medium
         Big     

    Each size has various properties that alter your Character's baseline
    physiology. These alternations are not all beneficial. Each Size Category is
    explained in detail in the Physiology section.

DAMAGED MUTATIONS 
=================

Mutations aren't just balls of numbers that you tap your finger on to make the
bad guys go away. They're relics of your Characters story AND features on your
Character's anatomy. A Character more than likely sees there Mutation as a part
of their body or at least as a important item that deserves respect. Regardless,
you will more than likely damage your Mutation.

Mutations have a chance to become Damaged whenever the limb their attached
to/housed within become Damaged. It depends on how hard the hit was, but a
Damaged Mutation can be either Malfunctioning or Disabled.

Using a Malfunctioning Mutation incurs a Bust whenever you are using it. A
Disabled Mutation cannot be used at all.

Crux can Catastrophically Fail if they become Damaged.  When a Crux is damaged,
the GM draws one card from Fate. Every time you use a Damaged Crux, the GM with
draw another card from Fate. When they get a card that matches the number or
suit of the first card drawn, they stack that card on top of the first one
drawn. When the stack reaches a total of 3 cards, the Crux Catastrophically
Fails. If they draw a Joker at any point of creating this stack, the Crux
Catastrophically fails. The Players shouldn't know how big the stack is at any
given point.

You may exchange 2 Grit to subtract 1 Card from this stack, but you won't know
the new size of a stack, and you won't be to reduce the size of this stack to
less than 1.

When a Crux Catastrophically Fails, it imparts all its negative effects on its
owner as if it was activated with a Try of 15. The owner automatically fails any
Challenges applied to them due to a Catastrophically Failing Crux.

If the Crux is a Anatomy Mutation, half of all of the Splice Points placed into
it are treated as Damage that applies to its owner directly.

Boost is treated as Stress in these instances. If the Mutation has Range,
Effects, or an Area, the GM has free reign to direct the Mutation's involuntary
activation as they see fit.
