MANEUVERS
=========

    Maneuvers are special actions that your Character is capable of. Much like
    Traits, Manuevers are capable of extra damage, bonus movement, triggering
    special Challenges and temporary Core Damage.

BASIC
-----

    These are Maneuvers that all Creature automatically have. They are clearly
    defined below, and they are staples of combat encounters. They are very nearly
    simple Challenges, with the only difference being that they have explicite
    values associated with every possible Attempt Score, and specified results of
    failure, and occassionally special rules by which their Difficulty are
    determined.

SPECIAL
-------

    These are Character specific Maneuvers that are defined at Character Creation
    and Level Ups. They are much like Traits in that you purchase with Exo Points,
    with the key difference that you set a Trigger Value for the Maneuver, and in
    the event that you generate an Attempt Score equal to or greater than the
    Maneuver's Trigger Value, you may choose to activate the Maneuver, granting its
    properties to whatever Basic Maneuver you were Attempting.

BASIC MANEUVERS
===============

SLAM
----

    As an Action, you may Attempt a Brawn Challenge. The number generated
    represents the Challenge faced by other Creatures when they encounter the
    source of the Challenge. For every 5 points generated by the Attempt, the
    Slam gains 5ft of AoE.  The Damage of the Slam is increased by one point for
    every point of Brawn you have above 0, and a Slam always has at least 5ft of
    AoE. 

    The Damage Property of the weapon used to perform the Slam is applied to every
    Creature that is caught in the AoE unless they succesfully Dodge the Slam
    (either passively or actively), and also exit the AoE of the Slam.

    Alternatively, the Creature may use a Reaction to activate a Trait, Spell,
    etc. to exit the Slam's AoE. If for whatever reason the target(s) are unable
    to exit the Slam's AoE, the Dodge is failed. 

    Slams are performed with Crude weapons and by Unarmed Creatures mainly, but
    may be performed with Technical Weapons with a Bust. Unarmed Slams have
    damage equivalent to their owner's Brawn Score plus their Natural Defense. 
    
    Attempt:        0       5       10      15      20   ...
    Slam AoE:       5ft     10ft    15ft    20ft    25ft ...

STRIKE
------

    As an Action, you may Attempt a Speed Challenge. The number generated
    represents the Challenge faced by other Creatures that encounter the Strike.
    Strikes always grant +1 Damage to the Weapon/Tool used in the Strike.

    For every 5 points generated by the Attempt, the Strike gains 1 point of
    Bonus Damage. The Damage Property of the weapon used to perform the Strike
    is applied to a singular Creature within the Reach of the Striking Creature,
    unless the target Dodges the Strike. 

    The Damage of the Slam is increased by one point for every point of Speed
    you have above 0. 

    Basic Strikes do not have AoE, meaning that Stride does not need to be
    expended to avoid Basic Strikes. Unarmed Strikes have damage equivalent to
    their owner's Speed Score plus their Natural Defense. 
    
    Strikes are performed with Melee Technical weapons and by Unarmed
    Creatures, but may be performed with Crude and Ranged Weapons with a Bust.
    
    Attempt:       0       5       10      15      20   ...
    Bonus Damage:  1       2        3       4       5   ...

PUSH/YANK
---------

    Your Character may attempt to move an object or Creature that is at most 1
    Size Category larger than you. For every point you beat the Momentum score
    by, you are able to move the object or Creature by 5ft. If this movement
    causes a Creature to move a distance greater than their Remaining Stride
    (whichever is lower at the moment they were Pushed/Yanked) before
    encountering a hard surface, they Trip. If a Creature does encounter a hard
    surface, they stop moving and take 1 Damage per 5ft moved.

    Creatures that are aware of your presence may make a Brawn Challenge against
    your Push/Yank attempt and add it to their Momentum score.

DASH 
-----
    
    Your Character is able to suddenly and explosively move between two points.
    You are able to make a Speed Challenge, and for every 5 points generated by
    your Character's Attempt, you may move 5ft across any solid surface
    (vertically or horizontally) in one motion. 

    They may move over gaps or non-solid surfaces, but the Dash must start on a
    solid surface. If you end a Dash such that a Creature is within your Reach,
    any Challenges applied to them before your Turn ends is made with a Bang.
    Dashs do not consume Stride, however you may not Dash if your Character has
    a Burden of II or higher. Attacks made against you during a Dash are made
    with a Bust.  

GRAPPLE 
--------

    Your Character may attempt to grab onto and hold a Creature that is their
    Size or smaller as a Brawn Challenge. If you are more than 2 Size Categories
    larger than the target, you make the Grapple attempt with a Bang. Dodge
    Attempts made against your Grapple Attempt are made with a Bang as well.

    You force a Brawn Challenge or Speed Challenge from a Creature you attempt
    to grapple. If your Attempt Score was higher than theirs, your Character
    forces the target into their Occupied Space.

    While Grappled, a Creature is unable to perform any Action or Reaction that
    requires free movement of their body. A Grappled Creature is unable to move
    their arms or legs willingly, and cannot turn their head.

TACKLE
------

    Your Character may quickly move forward and throw their entire body at a
    Target. 

    To iniate a Tackle, the Tackler adds their Momentum to a Brawn Attempt to
    determine the Tackle's Difficulty. The Tackled Creature then adds the result
    of their Attempt (typically either Speed or Brawn) to their Momentum. For
    every point the Tackler beats the target's resistance by, they may move both
    Creatures 5ft in the direction the Tackler was initially moving when they
    initiated the Tackle. This movement is treated as if it were a Dash.

    The 

    Any Natural Defense possessed by either Creature is transfered as Damage to
    the other Creature once at the end 

THROW
-----

    In order to throw an Object or Creature, you perform a Brawn Challenge. For
    every point you beat the target's Momentum by in addition to the target's
    potential resistance to being thrown, you may throw the target by 5ft.  When
    they land, they take 1 point of Damage per 5ft moved plus their Momentum
    score. If they contact something, the Damage is applied to whatever they hit
    as well. 

    If this object is a Weapon, or otherwise an item with a Damage property, its
    Damage value is added to the Damage that was just generated by the Throw. 

    If the Thrown object or Creature has Natural Defense, it is applied as
    Damage as well. Thrown Creatures are able to negate the damage by using a
    Reaction to complete a Speed Challenege with a Difficulty equal to the
    Thrower's initial Brawn Challenge.

    If you hit something with a Damage property, and the "business end" is
    facing the right way, or otherwise the force generated by the contact is
    ample, you will incur this as Damage against your Armor and/or Health upon
    contact. 

    You may Throw things at any square within your Character's Reach, but they
    are considered to have moved the full distance of the Throw for purposes of
    calculating the damage dealt. Any excess Range generated is converted into
    Damage at a rate of 5ft Excess Range per 1 Damage.

    A Thrower may declare that they are "Throwing Long", meaning that they Bust
    while Attempting the Throw, but each point of the Attempt grants 10ft of
    distance as opposed to 5ft.

    In order to Throw an unwilling creature, you must first Grapple them. Thrown
    Creatures complete there next Action with either a Boon or Bust, depending
    on the Thrower's intent. If they are Thrown Long, the Thrown Creature always
    Busts until the next Round, regardless of the Thrower's intent.

DODGE
-----

    Whenever a Challenge a Creature considers hostile is directed against them,
    they may take a Speed Challenge to avoid the source of the Challenge.
    Meeting or exceeding the Hostile Challenge's Difficulty allows your
    Character to avoid the effect completely. If the source has an AoE, the
    Character must also use their Stride or activate Self Propulsion with a
    Reaction in order to move out of the AoE. A Creature may intentionally Trip
    as a Reaction out of the AoE if they are out of Stride and Self Propulsion
    isn't available.

SPECIAL MANEUVERS
=================

    As mentioned Special Maneuvers are defined very similarly to the way Traits
    are defined, with the key difference that you do not exchange Slants for
    "Maneuver Points", instead you set a Trigger Value between 1 and 25. As an
    Action you may Attempt a Challenge with the Maneuver's Associated Core. If
    you meet or exceed the Trigger Value, the Maneuver's Properties may be added
    to whatever Action was being Attempted. These Actions can be any Basic
    Maneuver.

    What Properties your Special Maneuvers are able to possess depends on what
    Basic Maneuver it builds off of. Slams, for example, may gain additional
    Damage, Increased AoE, Effect Challenge, and Dash.

    The Trigger Value is equivalent to the amount of Blitz you have to build
    your Maneuver. You may store up to 3 Maneuvers at once, plus one more per
    point of Brain you have above 0. You are able to exchange previously
    constructed Maneuvers for new ones, but this is a Project of a Difficulty
    equivalent to the Trigger Value of the new Maneuver.


    The Properties with which you may build Maneuvers are as follows:

    ###SLAM

        ####BONUS DAMAGE    :   1
        ####BLITZ           :   2
        
        Bonus Damage --> Bonus Damage is added to the Weapon's Damage Property
        and the Brawn Score of the Creature completing the Slam. It applies to
        every Creature struck by the Slam.


        ####BONUS AoE       :   5ft
        ####BLITZ           :   3

        Bonus AoE --> Typically, a Slam generates an AoE at a rate of 5ft per 5
        points of its Brawn Challenge. With a Special Maneuver, you can boost
        this amount of AoE for 3 Blitz. You Trigger a Reaction from every
        Creature caught in the AoE of your Slam. 


        ####EFFECT          :   1
        ####BLITZ           :   2

        Effect --> In addition to the Damage of the Slam, you may also provide
        it an additional secondary Effect. This Effect can be any Action you
        could reasonable take with a Brawn Score. In order to move a Creature,
        the Effect must overcome the Momentum of the Creature(s) it is trying to
        move in addition to overcoming the active resistance of the Creature.
        The Effect itself is not capable of creating Damage, but certain
        mechanics like Tripping and Falling, as well as environmental hazards
        could potentially generate Damage as an indirect result of the Effect.

        ####BONUS SLAM      :   1
        ####BLITZ           :   10

        Bonus Swing --> After you resolve whether or not this Manuever
        sucesffully Damaged/Effected any Creatures, you may immediately perform
        an additional Slam. Bonus Slams do not inherit other properties from the
        Maneuver that generated them _unless_ a specific Bonus Slam was given a
        certain property. For example, it is perfectly acceptable for a single
        Maneuver to generate 2 Slams where the first has +20ft AoE and no bonus
        Damage, but then have the second Slam generate +5 Bonus Damage and 0
        AoE.

    ###STRIKE
    
        ####BONUS DAMAGE    :      1
        ####BLITZ           :      2

        Bonus Damage --> Bonus Damage is added to the Weapon's Damage Property
        and the Brawn Score of the Creature completing the Strike.

        ####PIERCING  :      1
        ####BLITZ     :      6 
        
        Piercing Damage --> You are able to exploit chinks in the Armor of your
        Opponent. Having a Piercing Maneuver effectively provides True Damage,
        with the one caveat being that certain types of Armors are Unpiercable.
        If Piercing Damage is directed against Unpiercable Armor it is instead
        treated as Damage equivalent to (2 * PIERCING). Ranged Strikes that have
        Piercing are performed with a Bust.

        ####DASH    :       5ft
        ####BLITZ   :       5
     
        Dash --> As part of a Strike, you may simulatenously execute a Dash, but
        at a steep cost of Blitz. This Dash is treated as normal. 

        ####EFFECT :    1
        ####BLITZ  :    2   

        Effect --> In addition to the Damage of the Strike, you may also provide
        it an additional secondary Effect. This Effect can be any Action you
        could reasonable take with a Speed Score, except for Dashing. 

        Unless the Creature is unaware of you, the Effect must overcome the
        target Creature's active resistance, in addition to any Reactions it
        already may have took in response to your Strike. The GM decides which
        Core it uses for its Attempt based on its Anatomy and the Context.
