ZONES & BORDERS
===============

Every Scenario has one or more Zones. Zones are intuitive divisions of space
within a given moment of play. Each Character a certain amount of space within a
Zone (given in fractions of the Zones they take up). This does not mean that
Characters are literally taking up 1/4 of a Zone as if they were a gaseous body.
It merely refers to how much space someone in an active combat scenario
generally takes.

Zones are categorized by how far they are from other Zones, but keep in mind
that Zones that are spatially adjacent may as well be considered further away if
significant obstacles exist at the border of the two Zones in question. 

The general distances are as follows, but keep in mind that your GM may assign a
different distance and Challenge Modifier to Zones depending on the Context.

        Distance Class       "Real" Distance                 Move Challenge Modifier
        --------------       ---------------                 -----------------------
        Very Close           0->20ft (Same Zone)             +0 
        Close                20->40ft (~1-2 Zone Away)       +2
        Far                  40->60ft (~2-3 Zones Away)      +5
        Very Far             >60ft (3+ Zones Away)           +12

The shape and sizes of Zones are not permanent. In fact, many Creatures
possess abilities or have access to items that will either divide Zones into
smaller ones, or completely remove them from the Scenario.

In the same way, some participants of a Scenario will be able to reach some
Zones that others cannot. Most likely, this will be due to some Creatures being
able to move about the Game World in ways that others cannot, such as by flying.
In such cases where Characters are able to move both vertically and
horizontally, Zones are considered to have height as well as width, though by no
means do these two measurements have to be equivalent to each-other.

Climbing or jumping between vertically distant Zones is completed as normal, but
the distance modifier will typically be doubled.

Features that divide the Scenario into its composite Zones are referred to as
Borders. Borders add or remove Difficulty to any Challenge that is completed
while crossing them. Different Paths and Borders will invoke different
Challenges. 

The most common type of border is a Space Border, and are what gives Zones their
maximum size of 20ft wide and 20ft long.

It's very possible for a singular Border to add Difficulty when approaching it
from one direction, but remove Difficulty when approaching it from another. It's
also likely that approaching a Border multiple times will cause the Difficulty
they add/remove to fluctuate.

MOVING WITHIN ZONES
-------------------

As every Zone is at most 20ft long and 20ft wide, moving between two points
directly often represents a trivial amount of distance to cover within 3 seconds
(the length of a Round in combat). As such, moving between two points within a
Zone does not require an Action, but is instead done as a part of an Action or
Reaction. It can either be done before or after the Action resolves, but you
can't 'hold' the reposition for use later in the round.

Doing this repeatably begins to test the agility of the Character. You may
reposition within a Zone a maximum of twice per round. You get the first
reposition for free, but if you want to do it again, you must use an Action or
Reaction *just* to reposition.

If your Character has 3 Speed or higher they may reposition within a Zone a
maximum of 3 times per Round. They may reposition twice for free, and use an
Action or Reaction to reposition a third time as an Action.

When describing where you are within a Zone, you use relative distance to
stationary objects within the Zone. You will tend to use words like "next to"
and "10ft away from". 

MOVING BETWEEN ZONES
--------------------

In each Scenario, a Creature has 3 Actions/Reactions they can complete during
each Round. Moving between Zones require either an Action or Reaction. In order
to determine whether or not you move between two Zones, your GM will total the
Difficulty supplied by the distance between the Zones and the nature of their
Borders. 

You then complete the appropriate Challenge(s). Successfully beating the Challenge
will allow you to move to the Zone you designated through the Path whose
Challenge you completed. 

In situations where you fail the Move Challenge, instead of moving the maximum
intended distance, you move a shorter distance that was along the path you were
moving, as appropriate for the Attempt made. In other words, if 3 Zones lay in a
straight path, moving to the furthest Zone would invoke a Move Challenge of 5 or
higher. If you only generate an Attempt of 4, you would instead only move to the
2nd furthest Zone. You may decide to cease movement whenever you cross a Border.

You aren't able to fail moving Horizontally between two adjacent zones that are only
separated by a Space Border. At worst, you'll Trip into the Zone you were moving
into if you Critically Fail or Flop.

Otherwise, failing a Challenge supplied by a Border causes you to stop at the
Border, but depending on the nature of it, it can cause your Character to be
displaced to either side of the Border. 

As always, you may decide to Double or Triple Down on a single Move
Action/Reaction, but as mentioned, Flopping while moving between Zones will
result in your Character Tripping in addition to whatever effects failure has on
your Situation.

Movement is not done with just your Speed Core. Move Challenges will call for
Speed the vast majority of the time, but as with all Challenges, it is an equal
mixture of intuition and GM preference. In order to move between adjacent Zones,
you can be asked to Attempt any type of Challenge. For example, moving through a
large, meandering crowd of people is often more of a question of body language
(Heart) or how pushy you can be (Brawn). 

Moving between non-adjacent Zones will always involve at least 1 Speed
Challenge, but often invoke additional Challenges along the way. As always,
these Challenges force the use of a Reaction.  Moving between two adjacent Zones
is only ever able to invoke 1 Challenge. This means ramming through a door that
separates two Zones only ever requires a single Brawn or Brain challenge, or
vaulting over a waist-high fence Border is only a single Speed Challenge or a
pretty Difficult Brawn Challenge.

BEING SCARY IN SPACE AND TAKING NAMES 
-------------------------------------

Space refers to any discernible, unoccupied area within the Game World. Due to
the nature of the game, the exact square-footage of a certain Space is best left
to approximation and mental heuristics. At the same time, certain abilities,
items, and narrative components have explicitly sized products or forms. When
given exact dimensions, they are meant to be adhered to closely and should act
as landmarks when describing the shape, size and position of less explicitly
defined features. 

Your Character is considered to Threaten a certain amount of Space within a
Scenario. To Threaten something means that should a creature, object, or item
take an Action/Reaction, your Character is able to invoke a Reaction of your own
assuming you haven't used up all your Actions for a Round. 

Creatures Threaten everything that occupies the same Zone as them, but can
potentially Threaten Creatures that are multiple Zones away if they have some
item or ability that supplies Threat. 

Threat is not the same thing as Range. Range means you *can* Threaten something,
whereas Threat implies you *are* Threatening something. Your Threat describes a
radial distance around your Character where you Threaten anything within it.
Range, on the other hand, describes how far away a singular target can be and
that you can still try to attack it.

If you have the ability to make a Ranged Attack, you may as part of an Action or
Reaction, designate a single Creature to Track. To Track a Creature means that
you can immediately React to any Action/Reaction that Creature takes, as if you
were Threatening them. For each point of Speed your Character has, you can Track
one additional Creature at once, but all Creatures you are Tracking must be in
the same Zone. If the Creature you're Tracking is aware of you and your
position, it knows when you are Tracking it.

If two or more Creatures are Threatening another Creature, their Reactions
resolve in the order of highest Speed Core to the lowest. You may
expend a point of Stamina to Cut, pushing your Action to the front of the
queue, meaning it will resolve before the Creature who would normally go first 

SHAKING THINGS UP
-----------------

Actions (and Reactions) have consequences on the Game World. Sometimes these
consequences cascade and end up altering the Scenario significantly. When this
happens the GM will have to re-describe the Scenario and reform the Zones.

There are many reasons why a Zone would change its shape/size. Maybe a Thrasher
just fired a ray from their Cryo-Cannon, causing a 15ft tall wall of ice to
sprout from ground, cleaving the lobby of the bank in half. Maybe you're in a
burning building with thick black smoke obfuscating your vision and tendrils of
fire snaking all around you, causing the Zones to shrink and shift between every
Round.

Every time a Zone you're in changes shape, you must shuffle your deck, but you
cannot be forced to shuffle your deck more than 3 times per round.

In any event, the placement of Borders and Paths are more important in
deciding how to traverse a Scenario than the size of the Zones themselves

TAKING COVER, APPLYING PRESSURE AND FLANKING
----------------------------------------------

You won't survive long if you stand out in the open. Taking Cover is vital in
order to minimize the amount of Attacks you have to Dodge each round. 

Taking Cover is different to just being behind a wall that's larger that your
Character, this is referred to as being Out of Sight, meaning that your
Character can't be targeted directly. Taking Cover implies that you Character
has to stoop, bend, or even go prone in order to take advantage of the
environment in order to make themselves a harder target.

Whatever you are Taking Cover behind must be at least half the size of your
Character. There are 3 different ways to Take Cover. 

Hover - 

    Hovering implies that you are standing near the cover and are ready
    to duck behind it at any moment and are able to peak out of it in order to
    make quick attacks. Any Attacks made against you while Hovering
    are made with a Bust as long as the cover is at least partially between your
    Character and the assailant.

    Hovering is not an Action, but a status that your Creature gains while they
    are near appropriate cover.

    If you attempt and succeed at an Active Dodge while you are Hovering, you
    may immediately Squeeze into cover as part of the Action used to complete
    the Active Dodge.

Squeeze - 

    This implies that your Character had to go into an awkward position or
    otherwise crouch, bend, or contort in order to utilize the cover. Whenever
    you Squeeze into Cover, Attacks made against you are made with a Bust as
    long as the cover is at least partially between your Character and the
    assailant. You also get Bang I on any Active Dodges you take against Attacks
    made by assailants as long as the cover is between you and them. 

    You may make Attacks while Squeezing, but you will have Unsqueezed to do so
    as part of the Attack, meaning that if you want to get back into cover you
    will have to use an Action to Squeeze again. Unsqueezing during a Round does
    not restore the dropped Action for that Round.

    When Squeezing, your Character can be considered to have reduced their size
    by up to half. This may enable to Creature to go Out of Sight.

    Squeezing must be done as an Action, but it still leaves you with 2 Actions
    to use for that Round if you Squeezed with your first Action for that Round.

    If the cover only visually obscurs the Creature

Pray - 

    This implies that your Character is using something that is charitably
    called "non-convential" cover. Praying under Cover is darting behind a thin
    lamp post and having it miraculously block the bullet, or having an elevator
    door close just in time to catch the angry end of a spear or pulling your
    hand up out of reflex and having the knife bite into your wrist-watch
    instead of your face.

    You Pray by sacrificing 2 Actions, 2 Stamina, 1 Action and 1 Stamina or 1
    Strike in lieu of Actions or Stamina. You can Pray even if you exhausted all
    your Actions for a Round if you decide to expend a Strike, even if you've
    Frenzied.
    
    You and your assailant then draw 2 Cards each and compare colours. If all 4
    Cards match in colour, the Prayer is answered and circumstances will
    conspire to force the Attack to miss. Otherwise, the Attack proceeds as
    normal. A single Joker present in any of the 4 Cards causes the Prayer to go
    unanswered.

    You must be aware of the Attack that's coming in order to Pray. Your GM must
    also believe you have SOMETHING available to you that would feasibly block
    the attack you're Praying against. Unless your buck naked, you PROBABLY do
    have something that could at least slow a bullet down. You're able to ask if
    you can Pray and your GM is obliged to answer you, though they do have the
    final say on the matter.

Cover is considered to be between the Attacker and the Target if the GM can draw
a straight line between the Attacker and the Target and the line intersect some
part of the Cover
Flanking on the other hand, is a way to flip the tables on your entrenched
opponent and turn the blessing of cover into a curse. A flank happens when the
GM draw a straight line through the Attacker, the Target and the cover that the
Creature is Hovering or Squeezing behind and the Target is between the Attacker
and the Cover.

If the Target was Hovering, the Attacker gets Bang I, and if the Target is Squeezing,
the Attacker gets Bang II.

Attacking Creatures that are unaware of you Bang III when they are attack you.

MOMENTUM & BURDEN
=================

Your Momentum is used to determine the damage you take from Falls, Trips and
collisions as well as how easy it is to propel your Character by means other
than Stride. In addition, it is used to determine how hard it is to catch
yourself mid-fall or Trip. 

Momentum is 5 by default, but has a boundless range. Your Character can lift
at maximum twice their Momentum. Your own personal Momentum is not counted
towards this total, but otherwise everything you carry/wear is given a
Momentum score and the sum of these scores is considered your Burden. 

If your Burden is higher than your Character's Momentum but lower than double
their Momentum, your Character Busts whenever attempting to move between Zones,
and they may only make one Action per round of Combat, and this action is made
with a Bust. This condition is known as Burden I. This means that you may
effectively lift another entire adult human worth of stuff before you're slowed
down noticeable (quite an impressive baseline ability by 2020 standards!) 

If your Burden is equal to twice your Character's Momentum Score, your
Character is unable to move and may not preform any other Actions
than Attempting to remove its Burden. This is known as Burden II.

Attempting to lift a Burden that is higher than your Momentum is automatically
failed, but one should keep in mind that the Momentum of something can be
reduced/increased without actually adding or removing mass from the object
you're trying to lift. Things like balance, friction, leverage and gravity may
change the Momentum of an object between attempts to lift it.

