Every Character has the following Vitals, which are derived from the Core Stats:

HEALTH            
------
Hearts: 2 + Brawn
-----------------
Health is comprised of Hearts and Strikes. Your Character has an amount of Hearts
equal to 3 plus its Brawn Score. Your Character is able to sustain an amount of
Damage equivalent to your Hearts x 3. For every 3 points of Damage (Strikes)
sustained, you lose a Heart, and your Character takes -1 penalty to a Core of the
offender's choice. If a character reaches 0 Hearts, they are knocked Unconscious.
Armor, Elixers and other items within the game can grant Health beyond what is given
by a Brawn Score. If a Character is reduced to 0 Hearts temporarily through damage
sustained to their Brawn Core, they are Stunned instead of falling Unconscious. If
they incur even more Damage after falling Unconscious, they begin Flirting With
Death, the rules of which will be covered later. 

DEFENSE
-------
Natural Defense (0) + Brawn + Speed
-----------------------------------
Defense refers to your Character's ability to withstand Damage before it begins to
suffer injury. That is, Damage that you choose to not Dodge may by Blocked, in which
case you subtract the Defense from the Damage before the leftover Damage is applied
to your Health. A Creature's personal Defense Score cannot be higher than 10, but you
can layer Defense so that a source of Damage must contend with multiple Defense
Scores before applying to a Creature. Defense is equal to your Speed and Brawn Cores
plus your Character's Natural Defense, which is 0 by default.

STRIDE 
------
Natural Stride (3) + Speed 
--------------------------
Your Character's Stride refers to their ability to move in quick, short sprints while
in a combat situation without using Equipment, Traits or Maneuvers. This speed is
independent of the speed they move while adventuring. Stride is determined by adding
your Speed score to your Natural Stride (1 by default). If a player is forced to move
more than their Stride allows, or they have moved up to their normal maximum Stride,
but then had their Stride reduced after the fact, they Trip in the direction they
were moving and being their next Turn with the Prone status. Movement produced by
Equipment, Traits or Maneuvers do not count as expended Stride. 

CHARGE 
------
5 * Spirit 
----------
Your Character's Charge refers to how potent their magical spells are. For every
point of Spirit, the Character gains 5 Charge, and can utilize Spells by expending
Charge or may take permanent or semi-permanent Charge penalty through Integrating
with certain items or creatures. This process is explained in detail in the Magic,
Symbiotic Relationships and Augmentations sections.

CAPACITY
--------
2 * Brain
---------
Your Character's Capacity refers to how many Spells, Maneuvers and Integrations your
Character can possess at once.

